well joining us now from Philadelphia is
CLA finlin she is a professor of Law and
of philosophy at the University of
Pennsylvania Law School cla a late March
trial date feels like quite the
statement from the judge what did you
make of how things unfolded in court
today well it's really rather
extraordinary because this was the case
that we thought might come last uh Alvin
Bragg the Manhattan da had indicated a
willingness to allow other cases to come
first most notably the January 6 case uh
brought by special counsel um but that
case has been delayed due to issues
surrounding immunity and Donald Trump's
hope that he will be declared immune now
by the Supreme Court um and so this case
is now zoomed ahead and I think the
Judge has just fed up and has had enough
with delaying tactics which clearly were
involved here uh with uh Trump and his
lawyers looking for any reason to delay
the trials uh after of course
complaining that he himself had been
biased by uh pre-trial delays so it's
really throw everything at the wall and
see what will stick and I think this
judge just decided uh time to move on
and and call an end to these tactics CLA
given that there were tactics involved
how much of ESP spanner does this now
throw in the works of Trump's campaign
calendar well I think it's a very good
idea to get this trial going because the
later we get uh towards the actual
election in November the harder it will
be to proceed with these trials and and
other trials will uh come in as well so
by moving ahead with the end of March um
and a starting jury selection on March
25th as uh has now been set on the
docket uh it looks like this case will
actually find a clear spot in the
calendar relative to other cases uh the
Georgia case uh may be delayed quite a
long time there are deep complications
there the January 6th case is
indefinitely delayed and we have no idea
what will happen with the uh classified
documents case in Florida so uh which is
also federal court um and also hangs by
the way on the immunity question because
it is a federal case um so it is a good
idea to get this going and of course
this was the first indictment so uh it
makes sense it should be the first trial
CLA I see Trump chose to appear in court
today I understand he's previously said
he was forced to appear when he wasn't
is that all getting him political
points uh I don't know it's very hard to
tell because there are so many different
claims he makes I doubt even his
followers can keep up with all of them
uh they sort of blend in together there
was no of course that that is incorrect
it's important to remind your viewers uh
that he was not forced to appear he
doesn't have to appear uh in any of
these uh interlocutory appeals uh that
are going on or any of these uh
interlocutory claims that are being run
down uh his lawyers can appear for him
but the effort to try to claim that this
is interfering with his rights as a
candidate is just one of the many things
that Donald Trump is claiming here uh in
order to try to gain sympathy and also
to try to claim delay uh and uh to ask
for further delays because of his
campaign schedule mhm CLA you mentioned
some of the host of charges that that
Trump faces when you consider the cases
this one on on hush money sounds a
little more trivial perhaps but I
understand it's also the only one where
he can't actually pardon himself if he
does actually get back into the White
House that's right so the two cases in
which a self- pardon will not work are
this case and the Georgia case because
they are indictments based on violations
of state law being considered by state
courts and Presidents Federal presidents
of course do not have the right to
Pardon themselves under state law now
they can make life very difficult uh for
State prosecutors and I very much expect
that if Donald Trump is elected in
November then if this case is somehow
still going on after January he would
make it very very difficult for Alvin
Bragg in all sorts of ways uh putting
pressure on uh uh governor of New York
Kathy huxel and so forth um but they
actually don't have any real power here
and so it's very important that the
state prosecutions be allowed to go
ahead and go ahead in a timely way
because if he does become president
again you can bet that he'll use the
weight of his office to interfere any
federal process uh that he possibly can
well it certainly sounds like timing is
indeed everything CLA finlin a professor
of Law and philosophy at the University
of Pennsylvania Law School great to have
you back on aler and sharing your
thoughts thanks
CLA thanks for having me now the
families of Israeli captives held by
Hamas since October 7th are protesting
as you can see outside Israel's defense
Ministry compound in Tel Aviv right now
let's go back to hamda salut she joins
us again from occupied East Jerusalem
hamda what else can you tell us about
this protest obviously there's been a
huge amount of of pressure on Netanyahu
and his government
this is an incredibly large
demonstration happening in telev outside
of the Kya known as the defense Ministry
and it's actually where that meeting
with the CIA director the isra Prime
Minister and other members of the
security apparatus are currently they're
inside of that building and some of the
family members of captives who have
simply been saying that time has run out
they released a statement tonight saying
that they were going to restart
intensified protests calling for
re-elections calling for Netanyahu to
step down simply because he has not
prioritized releasing the captives
you'll remember Before the War Began
there were weekly demonstrations of
hundreds of thousands of Israelis
against the government's judicial
reforms now that same group of
demonstrators known as the Kaplan Force
said they were coming back this Thursday
starting up these demonstrations once
again to make their voices heard in the
thousands and what these families are
trying to relay is that it was a mistake
on behalf of the Prime Minister to not
send that delegation back to Cairo for a
second day of mediations and
negotiations were more than four months
into this war in entering the fifth
month actually and they're saying that
the Israeli government is not
recognizing their plight and that their
family members are not being prioritized
the Israeli Prime Minister has said
repeatedly that he has red lines when it
comes to getting a deal to release the
captives and that military pressure is
the only way that can get done but these
family members have been saying for
months to give whatever concessions the
other side wants even if it means ending
the war if it means the captives can
come back from Gaza but the Israeli
government has refused that they've said
they are going to do things their way
and that they have other goals of the
war they need to accomplish as well so
the families of the captives are
incredibly angry and this meeting that's
going on inside the defense Ministry
where the prime minister is this protest
is happening right outside of it family
members are incredibly angry tonight
Nastasia they're certainly very angry
HDA I've been wondering how United they
are in terms of what they actually want
to see the government do we've obviously
seen protests also take place at some of
the border crossings stopping Aid trucks
are is there a kind of united front
amongst captives families about a kind
of government policy moving
forward the issue of the captives is of
the utmost importance and sensitive
within the Israeli Society there are
different forms of these protests that
happen almost every single day some of
them are a little more subdued than
others the one we're seeing tonight is
essentially the Resurgence of a larger
protest movement within the Israeli
Society but when it comes to the issue
of the captives it is seemingly that
everyone is on the same page though
there are different levels and
variations of what should be happening
for example the protests and
demonstrations that are going on at the
border crossings are people who are more
right-wing people who are from
settlements wanting to block aid from
going into Gaza to a population that is
already starving and the people who are
demonstrating in Tel Aviv are trying to
get a message across to the government
saying that there should be whatever is
in their power that can be done in order
to bring back the captive so while the
overarching message between all protest
movements is the same is that the
captives should be brought back there
are different levels of what these
groups are thinking the ones protesting
at the border say there should be no
humanitarian Aid there should be no
anything really until the captives are
brought back and the families are saying
just give the other side whatever it is
they want if it means that we can have
our loved ones back and these families
have been saying that these
demonstrations are going to be bigger
they're going to be louder they're going
to be perhaps even more than once a week
they're going to block roads in order to
send that message to the Israeli
government that they are not happy with
the current policy Hamas salut there
with a latest for us from occupied East
Jerusalem thank you so much h